---
title: "I booked a one-way flight to Europe"
date: 2011-04-04
draft: false
---
A few months ago I quit my job that I liked at ExactTarget, to pursue something. What it was, and what it is, I am still seeking. I knew what I wanted to do: design, draw, paint, travel the world, get in adventures and use my skills to make this world a better place. Whether it's helping someone with basic concepts of composition or be there for a friend in need, that is certainly to be determined.I begin this journey in good spirits: having a caring family, great friends (old and new alike) who inspire me, a loving pet and everything a young man can ask for. I travel to look find what I'm looking for but also to figure out what I'm looking for.If you ask me the question "why did you book a one-way flight to Europe?" my answer is simple: I don't know, because I could and because I should. One of my favorite quotes is from J.R.R. Tolkein, "not all those who wander are lost."

This is it. As Odysseus did, he entrusted the wind of the gods to send him home, and I shall do the same. I first must disappear and get lost to be able to find and re-discover myself, in hopes I return as a better person than I was before.My travel plan is as simple as this: I don't really know.All I know so far is I'm going to Croatia to visit a country that I know very little about: that the story goes that the Virgin Mary appeared in Medjuajore, that former NBA star Toni Kucoc is from there, and that for some reason there is a giant bronze statue of Bruce Lee.After Croatia I am staying at an apartment I'm renting in Paris: blocks away from the Lourve, Notre Dame Cathedral and Apple Store. I assure you the Apple store was not planned.Here is to the unknown and uncharted waters. I firmly believe there is never a good time to do anything. You can wait for the tides to be perfect and one day realize that you grew old waiting for them to be perfect.My travel plans are simple: get on the first plane, bring my passport and figure the rest out when I get there. We live in a world with good people who will help one another out. I spent some time with my friends Mary Lou and Shawna to learn French. I will figure it out.